Overview of Microsoft Agent 365
AI-powered agents are rapidly becoming ubiquitous across enterprises, driving a broad and accelerating transformation. Microsoft Agent 365 provides the ability to observe, govern, and secure the growing number of agents within organizations.
Observe
Microsoft Agent 365 gives organizations real-time visibility into their agentic environment, helping admins understand how agents are used, identify performance or risk signals early, and take action before issues impact the business. Admins can now view all their agents in a single, centralized registry providing a unified view of agent adoption, activity, and agent health. These insights help leaders and AI admins stay in control, operate efficiently, and maximize the value of their agent investments from a centralized AI admin experience. Role-specific oversight extends this visibility to security and business leaders, ensuring the right stakeholders have the tailored insights they need to manage risk and measure agent value within their domains. Learn more: Agent registry, Agent map.
Govern
Establish consistent guardrails for AI agents by centralizing lifecycle management, access control, and compliance across the enterprise. Through the Agent 365 registry in the Microsoft 365 admin center, Microsoft Entra, and Microsoft Purview, admins can intentionally manage the lifecycle of their organization’s agents while ensuring the right permissions, policies, and reviews are in place. Together, these controls help organizations reduce risk, stay audit-ready, and ensure agents remain aligned with organizational policies and business needs. Learn more: Agent management overview.
Secure
Microsoft Agent 365 delivers end‑to‑end protection for every agent by extending Microsoft’s enterprise‑grade identity, data, and threat‑defense capabilities across your AI ecosystem. Microsoft Entra enforces consistent, risk‑based access controls for users and agents acting on their behalf, while Microsoft Purview provides deep visibility into data risks with information protection, DLP, and risk safeguards. Microsoft Defender adds continuous threat detection and real‑time protection to block unsafe behaviors and malicious activity. Together, these capabilities ensure agents only access authorized resources, prevent data leakage, and defend against evolving threats. Learn more: Use Microsoft Purview for data security and compliance, Enable security for AI agents using Microsoft Defender.
Agent 365 availability and prerequisites
As of May 1, 2026, Microsoft Agent 365 is generally available for the Commercial segment on a per user basis. For more information about the product, see Microsoft Agent 365, now generally available, expands capabilities and integrations. At launch, a set of partner agents are available to deploy directly from the Microsoft 365 admin center.
Microsoft Agent 365 works best when using Microsoft E5 as a pre-requisite. At least one user must be licensed with a qualifying Microsoft Agent 365 license to enable Agent 365.
Plans and licensing
For plans and pricing information, see Microsoft Agent 365: The Control Plane for Agents. For details on feature availability by plan, see the Microsoft Agent 365 service description.
Microsoft Agent 365 is licensed on a per-user basis. For details, see Microsoft Agent 365 Licensing FAQs.
Next step
Why does an enterprise need Agent 365?