Enable security for AI agents using Microsoft Defender
Microsoft Defender integrates with Microsoft Agent 365 to secure the AI agents in your organization. After you onboard to Agent 365, enable security for AI agents to discover, protect, and respond to threats targeting agents in your tenant. For an overview of the agent security capabilities, see Protect AI agents using Microsoft Defender.
Onboarding includes enabling data collection, connecting the Microsoft 365 app connector, and onboarding Copilot Studio for real-time protection.
Prerequisites
Before you start, make sure you have:
Onboard to Microsoft Agent 365.
Local agents are onboarded separately from cloud agents. To include local AI agents that run on endpoints, set up AI agent runtime protection in Microsoft Defender for Endpoint. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint must run in active mode.
Security Administrator role or higher in Microsoft Entra ID.
For Copilot Studio real-time protection, you need collaboration with a Power Platform administrator.
Connect data sources
To configure the data sources that Microsoft Defender uses to surface, investigate, and protect AI agents in your tenant:
Sign in to the Microsoft Defender portal.
Go to Settings > Security for AI > Get started.
When you onboard to Agent 365, security for AI agents is enabled automatically, including AI agent discovery, security posture assessment, and threat detection. The Enable toggle is on by default. To stop collecting data for AI agents, switch it to Off.
A setup checklist shows the status of required and optional data sources. Agent 365 provides unified visibility into AI agents and is marked as Done automatically.
Enable the Microsoft 365 connector to get investigation and advanced hunting capabilities for AI agent activity:
In the Get started page, select the Microsoft 365 connector step.
On the Select Microsoft 365 components step, select at least the two components required for AI agent monitoring:
Microsoft Entra ID Management events: audit admin activities performed in Microsoft Entra ID.
Microsoft 365 activities: audit activities performed by users in your Microsoft 365 apps.
Microsoft Entra Users and groups is a prerequisite for all monitoring capabilities and is selected by default.
Select Connect Microsoft 365 to complete the connector setup.
When the connector is active, its status shows as Connected.
For Copilot Studio agents, if the Microsoft 365 connector isn't connected, real-time protection continues to block suspicious activity during runtime, but alerts and incidents related to these actions don't appear in the Microsoft Defender portal.
Connect Copilot Studio to enable real-time protection for Copilot Studio agents:
In the Get started page, select the Copilot Studio step. The Copilot Studio real-time protection pane opens.
Toggle Real-time protection to on.
This integration allows Microsoft Defender to scan agent tool invocations in real time, detect security risks (suspicious behavior or cross-prompt injection attacks), and block malicious actions. If suspicious behavior is detected, the response is blocked and an alert is triggered in the Microsoft Defender alerts and incidents queues.
Under Enable Power Platform Integration, copy the URL provided and share it with your Power Platform administrator.
Work with your Power Platform administrator to complete the onboarding steps in Power Platform. For detailed instructions, see Enable external threat detection and protection for Copilot Studio custom agents.
Make sure that the Power Platform administrator uses the same App ID as the App ID used in the Microsoft Entra ID application.
Get the App ID from the Power Platform administrator, paste it into the App ID field in the Defender portal, then select Save.
If you recently changed the App ID in Power Platform, it can take up to one minute for the update to propagate. If you encounter a validation error when saving the updated value, wait a short time and try again.
When the Power Platform administrator completes the onboarding steps, the Copilot Studio step shows a Connected status in the Get started page.
The Get started page also shows a list of Identified Power Platform Admins who have permission to complete the setup in Power Platform.
Next steps
After onboarding is complete, explore these capabilities:
Discover AI agents and assess security posture using Microsoft Defender
Detect and investigate threats to AI agents using Microsoft Defender
Protect AI agents in real time using Microsoft Defender